# Why My Friend Immediately Applied for the Capital One Savor Card After Learning of This Valuable New Card Perk Million Mile Secrets

**Source:** [https://millionmilesecrets.com/news/capital-one-savor-postmates-perk/](https://millionmilesecrets.com/news/capital-one-savor-postmates-perk/)  
**Folders:** Feedly  
**Description:** If you value convenience, now might be the perfect time to apply for the Capital One® Savor® Cash Rewards Credit Card.  Capital One recently added free unlimited membership with Postmates to the card from now until December 2019.  A Postmates Unlimited subscription typically costs ~$10 per month, so this new perk is worth $120 if you use it over the next year.

My friend loves Postmates and had already been paying for a monthly subscription to save on delivery fees.  When he learned the subscription perk was added to the Capital One Savor card, he applied immediately!  He’ll save money on something he was already paying for.  Besides the subscription savings, the card also has a valuable sign-up bonus and no annual fee for the first year!

Save Money on Delivery Fees by Applying for the Capital One Savor Card to Get a Free Postmates Unlimited Subscription Through the End of 2019

Postmates isn’t available everywhere, but the delivery service is in most major cities in the US, including Chicago, Denver, Los Angeles, New York City, San Francisco, and several others.

You can get just about anything delivered through Postmates, including alcohol, groceries, takeout, or even essential items from a convenience store.  And with a Postmates Unlimited subscription, delivery fees are waived on all orders above $15.  Plus, you don’t have to pay for surge pricing during peak delivery times.

Apply for the Capital One Savor Cash Rewards Card

Apply Here:    Capital One® Savor® Cash Rewards Credit Card

Our Review of the Capital One Savor Cash Rewards Card

When you apply for the Capital One Savor card, you’ll earn $500 cash back after spending $3,000 on purchases within the first 3 months of account opening.

In addition to the bonus, you’ll earn bonus points in certain categories:

4% cash back on dining

4% cash back on entertainment

2% cash back at grocery stores

You’ll earn 1% cash back on all other purchases.  And there are NO caps on how much bonus cash back you can earn!  Plus, the card’s $95 annual fee is waived the first year.

What do you think of the new Postmates perk?  Does it make the Capital One Savor a must-have for your wallet?  Let me know in the comments below!


---

<section><div><div> <span>December 16, 2018 By <b><a href="https://millionmilesecrets.com/author/daraiusd/">Million Mile Secrets</a></b></span></div><p> Signing up for credit cards through partner links earns us a commission. Terms apply to the offers listed on this page. Here’s our full advertising policy: <a href="https://millionmilesecrets.com/guides/advertising-policy/">How we make money</a>.</p><p><strong>Update: One or more card offers in this post are no longer available. Check our </strong><a href="https://millionmilesecrets.com/hot-deals/#td"><strong>Hot Deals</strong></a><strong> for the latest offers.</strong></p><p>If you value convenience, now might be the perfect time to apply for the Capital One® Savor® Cash Rewards Credit Card.  <a href="https://millionmilesecrets.com/news/capital-one-savor-free-postmates-unlimited/">Capital One recently added free unlimited membership with Postmates</a> to the card from now until December 2019.  A Postmates Unlimited subscription typically costs ~$10 per month, so this new perk is <strong>worth $120</strong> if you use it over the next year.</p><p>My friend loves Postmates and had already been paying for a monthly subscription to save on delivery fees.  When he learned the subscription perk was added to the Capital One Savor card, he applied immediately!  He’ll save money on something he was already paying for.  Besides the subscription savings, the card also has a <strong>valuable sign-up bonus and no annual fee for the first year</strong>!</p><p><em>The information for the Capital One Savor Cash Rewards card has been collected independently by Million Mile Secrets. The card details on this page have not been reviewed or provided by the card issuer.</em></p><figure><figcaption>Save Money on Delivery Fees by Applying for the Capital One Savor Card to Get a Free Postmates Unlimited Subscription Through the End of 2019</figcaption></figure><p>Postmates isn’t available everywhere, but the delivery service is in most major cities in the US, including Chicago, Denver, Los Angeles, New York City, San Francisco, and several others.</p><p>You can get just about anything delivered through Postmates, including alcohol, groceries, takeout, or even essential items from a convenience store.  And with a Postmates Unlimited subscription, <strong>delivery fees are waived</strong> on all orders above $15.  Plus, you don’t have to pay for surge pricing during peak delivery times.</p><h3>Apply for the Capital One Savor Cash Rewards Card</h3><p><strong>Apply Here:    Capital One® Savor® Cash Rewards Credit Card</strong></p><p><a href="https://millionmilesecrets.com/reviews/capital-one-savor-card/"><strong>Our Review of the Capital One Savor Cash Rewards Card</strong></a></p><p>When you apply for the <strong>Capital One Savor </strong>card, you’ll earn <strong>$300 cash back</strong> after <a href="https://millionmilesecrets.com/guides/how-to-meet-credit-card-minimum-spend/">spending $3,000 on purchases within the first 3 months</a> of account opening.</p><p>In addition to the<strong> bonus,</strong> you’ll earn bonus points in certain categories:</p><ul><li><strong>4% cash back</strong> on dining</li><li><strong>4% cash back</strong> on entertainment</li><li><strong>2% cash back</strong> at grocery stores</li></ul><p>You’ll earn <strong>1% cash back</strong> on all other purchases.  And there are <strong>NO</strong> caps on how much bonus cash back you can earn!  Plus, the card’s <strong>$95 annual fee is</strong> <strong>waived the first year</strong>.</p><p>What do you think of the new Postmates perk?  Does it make the <strong>Capital One Savor </strong>a must-have for your wallet?  Let me know in the comments below!</p></div><div><div><p>Share</p>   </div></div><div><div> <a href="https://millionmilesecrets.com/author/daraiusd/"><h3>Million Mile Secrets</h3><p>Contributor</p> </a></div><div><p>Million Mile Secrets features a team of points and miles experts who have traveled to over 80 countries and have used 60+ credit cards responsibly to accumulate loyalty points and travel the world on the cheap! The Million Mile Secrets team has been featured on The Points Guy, TIME, Yahoo Finance and many other leading points &amp; miles media outlets.</p></div></div><div><p>More Topics</p><div><div><p><a href="https://millionmilesecrets.com/tag/capital-one/">Capital One, </a></p><p><a href="https://millionmilesecrets.com/tag/credit-cards/">Credit Cards</a></p></div></div></div><p><span>Editorial Note</span>: We're the Million Mile Secrets team. And we're proud of our content, opinions and analysis, and of our reader's comments. These haven’t been reviewed, approved or endorsed by any of the airlines, hotels, or credit card issuers which we often write about. And that’s just how we like it! :)</p></section>