# Lord of the Files: How GitHub Tamed Free Software [via Longreads]

**Source:** http://www.wired.com/wiredenterprise/2012/02/github/all/1  
**Domain:** wired.com  
**Folder:** Archive  
**Added:** 2012-03-06T16:44:21  
**Content Type:** Selection Content Extracted  
**Selection Length:** 929 characters  


---

## Selected Content

Inside the making of the social network for programmers—which now has 1.3 million users and more than 2 million source code repositories: <br /><br />

"At first, GitHub was a side project. Wanstrath and Preston-Werner would meet on Saturdays to brainstorm, while coding during their free time and working their day jobs. 'GitHub wasn’t supposed to be a startup or a company. GitHub was just a tool that we needed,' Wanstrath says. But — inspired by Gmail — they made the project a private beta and opened it up to others. Soon it caught on with the outside world.<br /><br />

"By January of 2008, Hyett was on board. And three months after that night in the sports bar, Wanstrath got a message from Geoffrey Grosenbach, the founder of PeepCode, a online learning site that had started using GitHub. 'I’m hosting my company’s code here,' Grosenbach said. 'I don’t feel comfortable not-paying you guys. Can I just send a check?'"

---

*This content was extracted from your Instapaper Selection field.*

"At first, GitHub was a side project. Wanstrath and Preston-Werner would meet on Saturdays to brainstorm, while coding during their free time and working their day jobs. 'GitHub wasn’t supposed to be a startup or a company. GitHub was just a tool that we needed,' Wanstrath says. But — inspired by Gmail — they made the project a private beta and opened it up to others. Soon it caught on with the outside world.<br /><br />

"By January of 2008, Hyett was on board. And three months after that night in the sports bar, Wanstrath got a message from Geoffrey Grosenbach, the founder of PeepCode, a online learning site that had started using GitHub. 'I’m hosting my company’s code here,' Grosenbach said. 'I don’t feel comfortable not-paying you guys. Can I just send a check?'"
