# Cubs Score Run When Kolten Wong Faceplants In The Outfield VICE Sports

**Source:** https://sports.vice.com/en_us/highlight/cubs-score-run-when-kolten-wong-faceplants-in-the-outfield  
**Domain:** sports.vice.com  
**Folder:** Feedly  
**Added:** 2016-09-24T06:34:45  
**Content Type:** Selection Content Extracted  
**Selection Length:** 1,313 characters  


---

## Selected Content

The St. Louis Cardinals gave up five runs in the first inning to the rival Chicago Cubs at Wrigley this afternoon, but we are only interested in one particular run. It's the second run we're here to talk about and, hey, maybe it was always going to be driven in, or maybe it could have been prevented, or maybe left fielder Kolten Wong would have had to have made a perfect throw to get the runner. These are questions that will never be answered, ever, because Wong absolutely ate shit in the outfield and only stopped eating shit when he came to a sudden stop directly on his face.

With Kris Bryant on second base, Anthony Rizzo slapped a lazy ball to the opposite field. Wong was trying to run around the ball and get into position to make a perfect throw that has forever been relegated to the hypothetical when he lost his footing on some loose sod within the friendly confines. As grass went flying up, Wong went tumbling down, legs still racing. He managed to position himself to at least get in front of the ball, but he churned his legs one time too many and the result was a nosedive right into the turf as the ball harmlessly bounced to center field. Bryant scored easily and the Cubs went on to drive in three more runs that inning, to take a 5-0 lead, which is where we stand heading into the sixth.

---

*This content was extracted from your Instapaper Selection field.*

With Kris Bryant on second base, Anthony Rizzo slapped a lazy ball to the opposite field. Wong was trying to run around the ball and get into position to make a perfect throw that has forever been relegated to the hypothetical when he lost his footing on some loose sod within the friendly confines. As grass went flying up, Wong went tumbling down, legs still racing. He managed to position himself to at least get in front of the ball, but he churned his legs one time too many and the result was a nosedive right into the turf as the ball harmlessly bounced to center field. Bryant scored easily and the Cubs went on to drive in three more runs that inning, to take a 5-0 lead, which is where we stand heading into the sixth.
