# How much more can be built in Los Angeles Marginal REVOLUTION

**Source:** [http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2018/03/city-los-angeles.html](http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2018/03/city-los-angeles.html)  
**Folders:** Feedly  
**Description:** Now, a bill under consideration in Sacramento would upend that arrangement, allowing multistory apartments and condominiums in neighborhoods where city leaders have long prohibited them. Senate Bill 827, written by state Sen. Scott Wiener (D-San Francisco), would loosen or eliminate restrictions on height, density, parking and design for residential properties near major rail and bus stops.

The impact could be huge. A Times analysis found that about 190,000 parcels in L.A. neighborhoods zoned for single-family homes are located in the “transit rich” areas identified in SB 827. Residences in those neighborhoods could eventually be replaced with buildings ranging from 45 to 85 feet, city officials say.

“While we are still evaluating the full effects of the bill, close to 50% of the city’s single-family homes would be impacted under SB 827,” said Yeghig L. Keshishian, spokesman for the Department of City Planning.

That is from Zahniser, Dillon, and Schleuss at the LA Times.  Via Matt Yglesias, who adds:

Note that ecologically the big #SB827 win isn’t even about transit-oriented development. California’s mild climate and low-carbon electricity mix make it one of the greenest places in America, so more houses in California is an environmental win.

It is time for this referendum to translate into larger excitement at the national level, as say Proposition 13 once did and some of the marijuana referenda have done as well.

Here is a thread on real estate in the Bay Area, worst is maybe Menlo Park.

The post How much more can be built in Los Angeles? appeared first on Marginal REVOLUTION.


---

<div>
    <div>
<blockquote><p>Now, a bill under consideration in Sacramento would upend that arrangement, allowing multistory apartments and condominiums in neighborhoods where city leaders have long prohibited them. Senate Bill 827, written by state Sen. Scott Wiener (D-San Francisco), would loosen or eliminate restrictions on height, density, parking and design for residential properties near major rail and bus stops.</p></blockquote>
</div>
<blockquote>
<div>
<p>The impact could be huge. A Times analysis found that about 190,000 parcels in L.A. neighborhoods zoned for single-family homes are located in the “transit rich” areas identified in SB 827. Residences in those neighborhoods could eventually be replaced with buildings ranging from 45 to 85 feet, city officials say.</p>
</div>
</blockquote>
<div>
<blockquote><p>“While we are still evaluating the full effects of the bill, close to 50% of the city’s single-family homes would be impacted under SB 827,” said Yeghig L. Keshishian, spokesman for the Department of City Planning.</p></blockquote>
<p>That is <a href="http://www.latimes.com/local/lanow/la-me-ln-housing-bill-transit-20180325-htmlstory.html">from Zahniser, Dillon, and Schleuss at the LA Times</a>.  Via <a href="https://twitter.com/mattyglesias/status/977959389461209093">Matt Yglesias</a>, who adds:</p>
<blockquote><p>Note that ecologically the big <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/SB827?src=hash"><s>#</s><b>SB827</b></a> win isn’t even about transit-oriented development. California’s mild climate and low-carbon electricity mix make it one of the greenest places in America, so more houses in California is an environmental win.</p></blockquote>
<p>It is time for this referendum to translate into larger excitement at the national level, as say Proposition 13 once did and some of the marijuana referenda have done as well.</p>
<p>Here is <a href="https://twitter.com/sallykuchar/status/978332798275616768">a thread on real estate in the Bay Area</a>, worst is maybe Menlo Park.</p>
</div>

  </div>
  