# Give 5 Seconds, Get 30% Off at Target (Up to $20) When You Link Your Google Express Account Million Mile Secrets

**Source:** [https://millionmilesecrets.com/news/target-google-express-promotion/](https://millionmilesecrets.com/news/target-google-express-promotion/)  
**Folders:** Feedly  
**Description:** I love it when I can save cash without ever leaving the couch, and this is one of those deals!

Through January 15, 2019, Google Express will send you a code for 30% off your next Target order on Google Express when you link your accounts.

This could be a good way to save a little on a present this year.  If you decide to take advantage of the offer, be sure to use one of the best travel credit cards for holiday shopping to make your purchase!

The Best Part of This Deal?  You Don’t Even Have to Go to a Target Store to Save!

Here’s what you need to know.

Save at Target With Google Express

Linking your accounts only takes a few seconds, and once they’re linked you’ll receive a confirmation by email.  According to reports, the email contains the code “TARGET30.”  I linked my accounts just before writing this post but haven’t received a confirmation yet, so it may take a bit.

Unfortunately, there’s a pretty long list of excluded brands.  But you shouldn’t have an issue using the discount on most everyday items.

Here are the brands excluded from the deal:

Apple

Bose

Beats

DockATot

Elf on the Shelf

Fitbit

Google

GoPro

Halo (baby items)

JBL

LEGO

Nintendo

Owlet

Peg Perego

Philips Avent

PS4

Samsung

Sonos

Switch

Tile

Traeger

Tylenol

Vitamix

Weber

XBOX

Nikon and Canon Point & Shoot Cameras and Lenses

Electric Shavers

Electric Toothbrushes

Barbie Dreamhouse

HotWheels Corkscrew Crash

Jurassic Rex Dino

L.O.L. Surprise Dollhouse

Thomas Super Station

LG 55″ 4K UHD HDR Smart

LG 55″ class 2160p 4K Ultra

LG 65″ 4K UHD HDR Smart

Red Dead Redemption

Again, you can click here to connect your Target and Google Express accounts.  The max you can save is $20, which means you’d need to spend ~$67 to earn the full discount (~$67 in purchases X 30% discount).

If you find any great deals, feel free to share them with everyone in the comments!  And to make sure you don’t miss out on other deals follow us on Twitter and Facebook.


---

<section><div><div> <span>December 3, 2018 By <b><a href="https://millionmilesecrets.com/author//">Meghan Hunter</a></b></span></div><p> Signing up for credit cards through partner links earns us a commission. Terms apply to the offers listed on this page. Here’s our full advertising policy: <a href="https://millionmilesecrets.com/guides/advertising-policy/">How we make money</a>.</p><p>I love it when I can save cash without ever leaving the couch, and this is one of those deals!</p><p>Through January 15, 2019, Google Express will send you a code for <strong>30% off your next Target order </strong>on Google Express when you link your accounts.</p><p>This could be a good way to save a little on a present this year.  If you decide to take advantage of the offer, be sure to use one of the <a href="https://millionmilesecrets.com/guides/best-cards-for-holiday-shopping/">best travel credit cards for holiday shopping</a> to make your purchase!</p><figure><figcaption>The Best Part of This Deal?  You Don’t Even Have to Go to a Target Store to Save!</figcaption></figure><p>Here’s what you need to know.</p><h3>Save at Target With Google Express</h3> <a href="https://express.google.com/u/0/store/target">Linking your accounts</a> only takes a few seconds, and once they’re linked you’ll receive a confirmation by email.  According to reports, the email contains the code “<em><strong>TARGET30</strong></em>.”  I linked my accounts just before writing this post but haven’t received a confirmation yet, so it may take a bit.<p>Unfortunately, there’s a pretty long list of excluded brands.  But you shouldn’t have an issue using the discount on most everyday items.</p><p>Here are the brands excluded from the deal:</p><ul><li>Apple</li><li>Bose</li><li>Beats</li><li>DockATot</li><li>Elf on the Shelf</li><li>Fitbit</li><li>Google</li><li>GoPro</li><li>Halo (baby items)</li><li>JBL</li><li>LEGO</li><li>Nintendo</li><li>Owlet</li><li>Peg Perego</li><li>Philips Avent</li><li>PS4</li><li>Samsung</li><li>Sonos</li><li>Switch</li><li>Tile</li><li>Traeger</li><li>Tylenol</li><li>Vitamix</li><li>Weber</li><li>XBOX</li><li>Nikon and Canon Point &amp; Shoot Cameras and Lenses</li><li>Electric Shavers</li><li>Electric Toothbrushes</li><li>Barbie Dreamhouse</li><li>HotWheels Corkscrew Crash</li><li>Jurassic Rex Dino</li><li>L.O.L. Surprise Dollhouse</li><li>Thomas Super Station</li><li>LG 55″ 4K UHD HDR Smart</li><li>LG 55″ class 2160p 4K Ultra</li><li>LG 65″ 4K UHD HDR Smart</li><li>Red Dead Redemption</li></ul><p>Again, you can <a href="https://express.google.com/u/0/store/target">click here</a> to connect your Target and Google Express accounts.  The max you can save is $20, which means you’d need to spend ~$67 to earn the full discount (~$67 in purchases X 30% discount).</p><p>If you find any great deals, feel free to share them with everyone in the comments!  And to make sure you don’t miss out on other deals follow us on <a href="https://twitter.com/milmilesecrets"><strong>Twitter</strong></a> and <a href="https://www.facebook.com/MillionMileSecrets/"><strong>Facebook</strong></a>.</p></div><div><div><p>Share</p>   </div></div><div><p>More Topics</p><div><div><p><a href="https://millionmilesecrets.com/tag/general-travel/">General Travel</a></p></div></div></div><p><span>Editorial Note</span>: We're the Million Mile Secrets team. And we're proud of our content, opinions and analysis, and of our reader's comments. These haven’t been reviewed, approved or endorsed by any of the airlines, hotels, or credit card issuers which we often write about. And that’s just how we like it! :)</p></section>