# Register Now for Starwood’s Fall Promotion to Earn 2X or 3X Points Million Mile Secrets

**Source:** http://millionmilesecrets.com/2016/09/13/starwood-promotions-2016/  
**Domain:** millionmilesecrets.com  
**Folder:** Feedly  
**Added:** 2016-09-13T15:36:37  
**Content Type:** Selection Content Extracted  
**Selection Length:** 3,030 characters  


---

## Selected Content

Disclosure: We get a commission for links on the blog. You don’t have to use our links, but we’re very grateful when you do. American Express, Barclaycard, Chase, and US Bank are Million Mile Secrets advertising partners. Opinions expressed here are the author's alone, and have not been reviewed, approved or endorsed by our partners. Here’s our Advertiser Disclosure.

Via One Mile at a Time, registration is now open for Starwood’s More For You Promotion. And you can earn 2X or 3X Starwood points at participating hotels, when you register by November 30, 2016, for stays through December 19, 2016.

Earn Bonus Points for Starwood Stays at Hotels Around the World, Like the W Washington, DC

I’ll show you how to register for this deal. And help you decide whether it’s worth it for you.

Earn Bonus Starwood Points With Their Latest Promotion

Link: Starwood’s More For You Promotion

Register by November 30, 2016, and you will earn 2X Starwood points per $1 spent on weekday stays of 2+ nights. And 3X Starwood points per $1 spent on weekend stays of 2+ nights, that include a Friday or Saturday night (Thursday or Friday in Middle East locations).

Note: Only base points (not extra points from having elite status) are doubled or tripled. But there’s no limit to the number of bonus points you can earn.

Is This a Good Deal?

It’s always nice to see a promotion from Starwood because there aren’t many ways to earn Starwood points.

But you’ll only earn bonus points from this promotion at participating Starwood hotels, so make sure the hotel you’re interested in qualifies. Because many hotels in popular destinations, like the Sheraton Walt Disney World Dolphin, are excluded.

Also, stays booked through 3rd-party sites like Orbitz or Expedia do NOT qualify. And award stays including Free Night Awards and Cash & Points will NOT qualify either.

So, I wouldn’t suggest going out of your way or changing your travel plans for this deal.

But, if you already had a Starwood hotel stay in mind (or even if you don’t!), it’s worth registering. Because earning a few bonus points is better than nothing. And registering is free and easy.

And don’t forget about other hotel promotions that could make more sense for you, like the deals from Hilton and IHG.

Other Ways to Earn & Use Starwood Points

Check out my posts about earning and using Starwood points. And don’t forget, you can transfer Starwood points to many different airlines and earn 5,000 bonus miles for every 20,000 points you transfer.

Or consider the AMEX Starwood personal and small business cards.

With both cards, you’ll earn 25,000 Starwood points after meeting the minimum spending requirements. The $95 annual fee is waived the first year.

Do you plan on taking advantage of this deal? Let me know in the comments!

* If you liked this post, why don’t you join the 20,000+ readers who have signed-up to receive free blog posts via email (only 1 email per day!) or in an RSS reader …because then you’ll never miss another update!

---

*This content was extracted from your Instapaper Selection field.*

Via One Mile at a Time, registration is now open for Starwood’s More For You Promotion.  And you can earn 2X or 3X Starwood points at participating hotels, when you register by November 30, 2016, for stays through December 19, 2016.

Earn Bonus Points for Starwood Stays at Hotels Around the World, Like the W Washington, DC

I’ll show you how to register for this deal.  And help you decide whether it’s worth it for you.

Earn Bonus Starwood Points With Their Latest Promotion

Link:   Starwood’s More For You Promotion

Register by November 30, 2016, and you will earn 2X Starwood points per $1 spent on weekday stays of 2+ nights.  And 3X Starwood points per $1 spent on weekend stays of 2+ nights, that include a Friday or Saturday night (Thursday or Friday in Middle East locations).

Note:   Only base points (not extra points from having elite status) are doubled or tripled.  But there’s no limit to the number of bonus points you can earn.

Is This a Good Deal?

It’s always nice to see a promotion from Starwood because there aren’t many ways to earn Starwood points.

But you’ll only earn bonus points from this promotion at participating Starwood hotels, so make sure the hotel you’re interested in qualifies.  Because many hotels in popular destinations, like the Sheraton Walt Disney World Dolphin, are excluded.

Also, stays booked through 3rd-party sites like Orbitz or Expedia do NOT qualify.  And award stays including Free Night Awards and Cash & Points will NOT qualify either.

So, I wouldn’t suggest going out of your way or changing your travel plans for this deal.

But, if you already had a Starwood hotel stay in mind (or even if you don’t!), it’s worth registering.  Because earning a few bonus points is better than nothing.  And registering is free and easy.

And don’t forget about other hotel promotions that could make more sense for you, like the deals from Hilton and IHG.

Other Ways to Earn & Use Starwood Points

Check out my posts about earning and using Starwood points.  And don’t forget, you can transfer Starwood points to many different airlines and earn 5,000 bonus miles for every 20,000 points you transfer.

Or consider the AMEX Starwood personal and small business cards.

With both cards, you’ll earn 25,000 Starwood points after meeting the minimum spending requirements.  The $95 annual fee is waived the first year.

Do you plan on taking advantage of this deal?  Let me know in the comments!

* If you liked this post, why don’t you join the 20,000+ readers who have signed-up to receive free blog posts via email (only 1 email per day!) or in an RSS reader …because then you’ll never miss another update!
