# The Writearound: Louis C.K. [via Longreads]

**Source:** http://jonahweiner.com/Louis_CK_Q&A.html  
**Domain:** jonahweiner.com  
**Folder:** Archive  
**Added:** 2012-01-24T13:55:13  
**Content Type:** Selection Content Extracted  
**Selection Length:** 1,351 characters  


---

## Selected Content

The comedian on his early influences, stand-up career and his hatred of traditional sitcom writing:<br /><br />

"I was explaining to my girls, we went by a Chinese restaurant that has the big LED sign, and it has this sweeping pattern, then flashes red, then blue, then blue sweeps across from left to right, right to left, red sweeps across, and they said, 'How does it do it?' and I said, 'There’s a circuit, somebody writes a program that tells the stupid lights to do this pattern, and they burn the program onto a circuit, and so that circuit just keeps taking this one trip.' So there’s a guy on every show that does that, he has his one way, he has his variety, about eight different joke formulas, and you refill them with different stuff. He’s either the dumb guy or, like, Lisa Kudrow’s character on Friends or whatever. 'I thought coffee was from Brazil.' 'Ugh, no the guy’s name is Coffee. He’s from Italy.' Garbage like that. Then you start building the story, then you go away on an act break. Then you build a third act that just is the train wreck of not really much fun, but it pays everything off, it leaves everybody feeling exactly the same way they left, that they felt before the show started. That’s what shows are meant to do, is leave on par and leave a few jokes behind, to be printed in Entertainment Weekly’s sound bites."

---

*This content was extracted from your Instapaper Selection field.*

"I was explaining to my girls, we went by a Chinese restaurant that has the big LED sign, and it has this sweeping pattern, then flashes red, then blue, then blue sweeps across from left to right, right to left, red sweeps across, and they said, 'How does it do it?' and I said, 'There’s a circuit, somebody writes a program that tells the stupid lights to do this pattern, and they burn the program onto a circuit, and so that circuit just keeps taking this one trip.' So there’s a guy on every show that does that, he has his one way, he has his variety, about eight different joke formulas, and you refill them with different stuff. He’s either the dumb guy or, like, Lisa Kudrow’s character on Friends or whatever. 'I thought coffee was from Brazil.' 'Ugh, no the guy’s name is Coffee. He’s from Italy.' Garbage like that. Then you start building the story, then you go away on an act break. Then you build a third act that just is the train wreck of not really much fun, but it pays everything off, it leaves everybody feeling exactly the same way they left, that they felt before the show started. That’s what shows are meant to do, is leave on par and leave a few jokes behind, to be printed in Entertainment Weekly’s sound bites."
