# 12 Recipes for Taco Night (That's Tonight!) Food52

**Source:** http://food52.com/blog/14432-12-recipes-for-taco-night-that-s-tonight  
**Domain:** food52.com  
**Folder:** Feedly  
**Added:** 2015-10-16T11:33:46  
**Content Type:** Selection Content Extracted  
**Selection Length:** 1,293 characters  


---

## Selected Content

We love a good potluck—our pals crammed around one table, reaching over each other, each contributing a part of the meal, and the meal very much more than the sum of its parts. But what we really love? A taco potluck. Put one person in charge of the cocktails, make sure there's plenty to fill the tortillas with (fried avocado! carnitas!), and fill in the table with all the fixings. Give everyone something to taco 'bout with these 12 recipes:

Start with a cocktail:

Smoky and Spicy Paloma by Hi, I'm Brian.

Michelada (a.k.a. Bloody Beer) by The Flying Foodie

Taco fillings (for everyone!):

Tinga Chicken by nannydeb

Low-Maintenance Fish Tacos by Amanda Hesser

Easy Lentil Walnut Tacos with Cabbage Lime Slaw by Gena Hamshaw

Fried Avocado Tacos with Sesame and Lime by arielleclementine

Pork Belly Carnitas by meatified

Diana Kennedy's Scrambled Ricotta (Requesón Revuelto a La Mexicana) by Genius Recipes

Don't forget the fixin's:

The Splendid Table's Refried Beans with Cinnamon and Cloves by Genius Recipes

Roberto Santibañez' Classic Guacamole by Genius Recipes

Cooked Green Salsa (Salsa Verde) by Pati Jinich

Or dessert!:

Mexican Chocolate Churro Rounds by Kendra Vaculin

What's your taco night essential? Tell us in the comments.

---

*This content was extracted from your Instapaper Selection field.*

Start with a cocktail:

Smoky and Spicy Paloma by Hi, I'm Brian.

 

Michelada (a.k.a. Bloody Beer) by The Flying Foodie

 

 

Taco fillings (for everyone!): 

Tinga Chicken by nannydeb

 

Low-Maintenance Fish Tacos by Amanda Hesser

 

Easy Lentil Walnut Tacos with Cabbage Lime Slaw by Gena Hamshaw

 

Fried Avocado Tacos with Sesame and Lime by arielleclementine

 

Pork Belly Carnitas by meatified

 

Diana Kennedy's Scrambled Ricotta (Requesón Revuelto a La Mexicana) by Genius Recipes

 

Don't forget the fixin's:

The Splendid Table's Refried Beans with Cinnamon and Cloves by Genius Recipes

 

Roberto Santibañez' Classic Guacamole by Genius Recipes

 

Cooked Green Salsa (Salsa Verde) by Pati Jinich

 

Or dessert!: 

Mexican Chocolate Churro Rounds by Kendra Vaculin

What's your taco night essential? Tell us in the comments.
