# The End of Children

**Source:** Private Instapaper Content  
**Original URL:** instapaper://private-content/1761218971  
**Folders:** Unread, Archive, Starred  

---

<div><p><span>The End of Children</span></p>

<p><i><span>Birth rates are crashing around the world. Should we be
worried?</span></i></p>

<p><b><span> </span></b></p>



<p><span>February 24, 2025</span></p>

<p><span>Play/Pause Button</span></p>

<p><span>If current
trends hold, each generation in Korea will be a third the size of the previous
one. Every hundred contemporary Koreans of childbearing age will produce, in
total, about twelve grandchildren.</span></p>

<p><span>Societies do collapse, sometimes suddenly. Nevertheless,
prophets of doom might keep in mind that their darkest predictions have been,
on the whole, a little premature. In 1968, Paul Ehrlich, a lepidopterist, and
his largely uncredited wife, Anne, published a best-seller called “<a href="https://12ft.io/proxy?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.amazon.com%2FPopulation-Explosion-Paul-R-Ehrlich%2Fdp%2F0671732943%2Fref%3Dsr_1_2%3Fcrid%3D1A7CE4RH0CNFZ%26dib%3DeyJ2IjoiMSJ9.6P9Y0jvIZPRoSjcxNrOthZfbGCLcPfqLHJGIwL8yD5PbUsolq5iU2JpcVgVwO37kOFZ2LUeJRBvgxlZqyAISaXiFbNm7FgMmoTGlz3Q8Ga0VgFBGcUyNfM7OMcFU4YpXtqzW2POXOGWU5kY1HVP_K91cRm47GmpnouprwPzB6z_UB2ewVhJSgb51WFruc_eQJVh1VVnIGE0kxGl22reN_fcDssoSL1kUXqKNb51LVJo.rEkvaEF7S-ZZNiX_jiYZE4EvYABxFLTRDOa72MOxls4%26dib_tag%3Dse%26keywords%3Dthe%2520population%2520bomb%2520paul%2520ehrlich%26qid%3D1740174821%26sprefix%3DThe%2520Population%2520Bomb%2Caps%2C158%26sr%3D8-2"><span>The Population Bomb</span></a>.” For
centuries, economists had worried that the world’s food supply could not
possibly be expected to keep pace with the growing mobs of people. Now there
was no postponing our fate. “The battle to feed all of humanity is over,”
Ehrlich wrote. “In the 1970s the world will undergo famines—hundreds of
millions of people are going to starve to death.” This was the received wisdom
of the era: a decade earlier, an only slightly flippant article in <i>Science</i> estimated
that in November, 2026, the global population would approach infinity. Ehrlich
prescribed a few sane proposals—the legalization of abortion, investments in
contraception research, and sex education—but he also floated the idea of
spiking the water supply with temporary sterilants. Americans might protest
such extreme measures, he allowed, but people in foreign countries should have
no choice. It was only reasonable that food aid be conditioned on the
developing world’s ability to exhibit civilized restraint. Nations that
tolerated a free-for-all of unrepentant copulation—he singled out India—would
be left to fend for themselves.</span></p>

<p><span>“The Population Bomb” transformed regional unease into a
global panic. India, in less than two years, subjected millions of citizens to
compulsory sterilization. China rolled out a series of initiatives—culminating
in the infamous one-child policy—that included punitive fines, obligatory IUD
insertions, and unwanted abortions. Ehrlich can hardly be blamed for the most
coercive incarnations of population control. He might, however, be accused of
impeccable comic timing. By the time “The Population Bomb” was published, the
population-growth rate had already peaked. For hundreds of thousands of years,
we had gone forth and multiplied. This epoch was coming to an end.</span></p>

<p><span>The “total fertility rate” is a coarse estimate of the
number of children an average woman will bear. A population will be stable if
it reproduces at the “replacement rate,” or about 2.1 babies per mother. (The
.1 is the statistical laundering of great personal tragedy.) Anything above
that threshold will theoretically generate exponential expansion, and anything
below it will generate exponential decay. In 1960, the tiny country of
Singapore had a fertility rate of almost six. By 1985, it had been brought down
to 1.6—a rate that threatened to roughly halve its population in two
generations. As the economist Nicholas Eberstadt told me, “For two decades, the
leaders of Singapore said, ‘Oh, uncontrolled fertility has terribly dangerous
consequences, so the rate has to come down,’ and then, after a semicolon,
without even catching their breath, said, ‘Wait, I mean go up.’ ” The
nation’s leaders launched a promotional campaign: “Have-Three-or-More (if you
can afford it).” Singaporeans were known to be good national sports, but,
despite the catchiness of the slogan, they proved noncompliant. From one nation
to the next, the nightmare of too many descendants turned into the nightmare of
too few. In 2007, when Japan’s total fertility rate hit 1.3, a conservative government
minister referred to women as “birth-giving machines.” This didn’t go over
particularly well with anyone, including his wife.</span></p>

<p><span>Today, declining fertility is a near-universal phenomenon.
Albania, El Salvador, and Nepal, none of them affluent, are now below
replacement levels. Iran’s fertility rate is half of what it was thirty years
ago. Headlines about “Europe’s demographic winter” are commonplace. Giorgia
Meloni, the Prime Minister of Italy, has said that her country is “destined to
disappear.” One Japanese economist runs a conceptual clock that counts down to
his country’s final child: the current readout is January 5, 2720.</span></p>

<p><span>It will take a few years before we can be sure, but it’s
possible that 2023 saw the world as a whole slump beneath the replacement
threshold for the first time. There are a couple of places where fertility
remains higher—Central Asia and sub-Saharan Africa—but even there the rates are
generally diminishing. Paranoia has ensued. In the past year, hundreds of men
in the Central African Republic have reported the presumably delusional belief
that their genitals have gone missing. In Nigeria, where the fertility rate has
fallen from seven to four, a widely read tabloid blamed a conspiracy of
perverts in the French intelligence services who had been “using secret
nanotechnology innovations to steal penises from African men in order to
reverse the extinction of Europeans unwilling to bear children.”</span></p>

<p><span>The phenomenon exerts a peculiarly deranging force, and
until recently Americans remained oblivious. In the past two decades, however,
the American fertility rate has dropped roughly twenty per cent, to 1.6. The
right wing sees depopulation as a greater threat than climate change. Elon Musk
describes it as “the biggest danger civilization faces by far,” and is trying,
in his quiet way, to compensate on his own. He has sired, at least in a
technical sense, thirteenish known children, and has reportedly offered the
dispensation of his sperm to friends, employees, and people he met once at a
dinner party. (Musk denies this. Skeptics of the strategy, though, might recall
that <a href="https://12ft.io/proxy?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.newyorker.com%2Fmagazine%2F2024%2F01%2F01%2Fempires-of-the-steppes-the-nomadic-tribes-who-shaped-civilization-kenneth-harl-book-review"><span>Genghis Khan</span></a>, according
to legend, had more than a thousand offspring.) Vice-President <a href="https://12ft.io/proxy?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.newyorker.com%2Fmagazine%2F2024%2F11%2F04%2Fj-d-vance-profile"><span>J. D. Vance</span></a> has
blamed this “catastrophic problem” on the “childless left.” Liberals more often
dismiss the issue, not without reason, as scaremongering in service of the
Republican assault on reproductive rights. Some go further: a dwindling
population is a more environmentally sustainable one.</span></p>

<p><span>Anyone who offers a confident explanation of the situation
is probably wrong. Fertility connects perhaps the most significant decision any
individual might make with unanswerable questions about our collective fate, so
a theory of fertility is necessarily a theory of everything—gender, money,
politics, culture, evolution. Eberstadt told me, “The person who explains it
deserves to get a Nobel, not in economics but in literature.”</span></p>

<p><span>The global population is projected to grow for about
another half century. Then it will contract. This is unprecedented. Almost
nothing else can be said with any certainty. Here and there, however, are
harbingers of potential futures. South Korea has a fertility rate of 0.7. This
is the lowest rate of any nation in the world. It may be the lowest in recorded
history. If that trajectory holds, each successive generation will be a third
the size of its predecessor. Every hundred contemporary Koreans of childbearing
age will produce, in total, about twelve grandchildren. The country is an
outlier, but it may not be one for long. As the Korean political analyst John
Lee told me, “We are the canary in the coal mine.”</span></p>

<p><span>In Seoul, an endless, futuristic sprawl of Samsung- and
LG-fabricated high-rises, an imminent shortage of people seems preposterous.
The capital city’s metropolitan area, home to twenty-six million citizens, or
about half of all South Koreans, is perhaps the most densely settled region in
the industrialized world. When I visited, in November, I was advised to
withdraw my phone from my pocket on the metro platform, because it would be
impossible to do so once on board the train. Fuchsia metro seats are reserved
for pregnant women. Those who aren’t yet showing are awarded special medallions
as proof of gestation. A looping instructional video reminded passengers of the
proper etiquette. Even amid the rush-hour crush, these seats were often left
vacant. They seemed to represent less a practical consideration than an act of
unanchored faith—like a place for Elijah at a Seder table.</span></p>

<p><i><span>“Stay . . .”</span></i></p>

<p><span>Cartoon
by Patrick McKelvie</span></p>

<p><span>Copy link to cartoon</span></p>

<p><span>Link copied</span></p>

<p><span>Shop</span></p>

<p><span>Portents of desolation are everywhere. Middle-aged Koreans
remember a time when children were plentiful. In 1970, a million Korean babies
were born. An average baby-boomer classroom had seventy or eighty pupils, and
schools were forced to divide their students into morning and afternoon shifts.
It is as though these people were residents of a different country. In 2023,
the number of births was just two hundred and thirty thousand. A baby-formula
brand has retooled itself to manufacture muscle-retention smoothies for the
elderly. About two hundred day-care facilities have been turned into nursing
homes, sometimes with the same directors, the same rubberized play floors, and
the same crayons. A rural school has been repurposed as a cat sanctuary. Every
Korean has heard that their population will ineluctably approach zero. Cho
Youngtae, a celebrity demographer at Seoul National University, said to me,
“Ask people on the street, ‘What is the Korean total fertility rate?’ and they
will know!” They often know to two decimal places. They have a celebrity
demographer.</span></p>

<p><span>Outside of Seoul, children are largely phantom presences.
There are a hundred and fifty-seven elementary schools that had no new
enrollees scheduled for 2023. That year, the seaside village of Iwon-myeon
recorded a single newborn. The entire town was garlanded with banners that
congratulated the parents by name “on the birth of their lovely baby angel.”
One village in Haenam, a county that encompasses the southern extremity of the
Korean peninsula, last registered a birth during the 1988 Seoul Olympics.</span></p>

<p><span>Haenam disappears into the sea at a windswept cape called
Ttangkkeut, or “End of the World.” Not far away, there is a school that once
had more than a thousand elementary-age students. When I visited, in November,
it had five. A pastel rainbow brightened the façade, and out front was a statue
of a singlet-clad boy with a raised torch; the plinth’s inscription read
“Physical strength is national strength.” A pair of slippers had been left for
me at the entryway, beside a trophy case crowded with bygone glories and a
laminated poster that introduced the names and career aspirations of the three
first graders (policeman, architect, idol singer) and the two sixth graders
(truck driver, fighter pilot). In a memorable scene in Alfonso Cuarón’s 2006
film, “Children of Men,” a dystopian vision of a sterile world, a deer bounds
through a trash-strewn school hallway. Here, dereliction was kept at bay: the
corridors were bright, broom-swept, and freshly painted. The former chambers of
a departed principal, dusted as if in anticipation of parent conferences, were
spectral; the empty room next door had a hulking public-address console, with
five microphones set at varying heights. It was as if everyone had evaporated
overnight.</span></p>

<p><span>The school administrator, Lee Youngmi, efficiently if
warily welcomed me into a main office lined with spotless devices—a
spiral-binding machine, a laminator—and offered me ginger tea and cookies. When
she’d first arrived, ten years ago, there were sixty students. But the
surrounding town had since drained away. The large cattle market, which used to
be candlelit until well after dark, is gone, as are the brewery, the lumber
mill, the police station, and the post office. Parents fought to preserve the school
as a center of civic life, but their children now complained that there was no
one left to play with. Teachers called the current group of students, in a
reference to an old Korean superhero cartoon, the Eagle Five Brothers. Lee was
accustomed to solitude. When she left me in the room, she reflexively flicked
off the heating.</span></p>

<p><span>The sixth-grade teacher, Kang Wooyoung, a man in his
twenties, had a similar air of resignation. His two students had been together
since they reached school age. When I asked if they got along, he seemed
baffled by the question: they fought sometimes, sure, but they didn’t know any
other children their age. “The advantage is that I can be super intimate with
the students,” he said. “The disadvantage is that they cannot learn to
socialize in a group setting.” One of his sixth graders was disabled; a special-education
teacher was retained on his behalf, but the line item was hard to justify. The
patterns of the children’s lives were unlikely to be upended by the arrival of
a strange new kid or the torment of an unapproachable crush. The school may be
closing next year. Kang had loved his first teaching job, his own childhood
dream. But he didn’t have any friends in town, either.</span></p>

<p><span>The
after-school program was about to start. It featured two options: 3-D printing
and something Lee called “a new sport.” She could give me no details on the new
sport, which was played on Tuesdays. In the past, they had offered volleyball,
badminton, and soccer, but such extravagances required a critical mass. She let
me wander the school, which felt like a museum of childhood artifacts: an unlit
but well-stocked gymnasium, a darkened cafeteria outfitted with a little
proscenium stage, enormous forsaken playgrounds, ballfields gone wild. The only
apparent concession to the demographic reality was a robotic apparatus for
playing Ping-Pong by yourself.</span></p>

<p><span>The end of the world is usually dramatized as convulsive
and feverish, but population loss is an apocalypse on an installment plan. At
one point in “Children of Men,” the protagonist, played by Clive Owen, regards
a private archive of cultural treasures—Michelangelo’s “David,” Picasso’s
“Guernica”—and turns to its proprietor to say, “A hundred years from now there
won’t be one sad fuck to look at any of this. What keeps you going?” The man
responds, “I just don’t think about it.”</span></p>

<p><span>Hysteria about the number of children is often an alibi for
hysteria about who is having them. In the first decades of the Roman Empire,
Augustus Caesar grew fixated on the decadent urban élite’s apparent refusal to
perpetuate itself. The patrician class, he said, was betraying the country “by
rendering her barren”; to deny their ancestors the immortality of their lineage
was an act “worse than murder.” In 9 <span>A.D.</span>,
he legislated that high-status men who remained single by the age of
twenty-five would forfeit their inheritances. In addition, the élites were
forbidden to marry actors. Their infertility probably owed less to dalliances
with thespians than it did to the presence of lead in their utensils,
cosmetics, and pipes. Either way, their biological legacies were in fact
extinguished: imperial Roman urbanites left little detectable genetic trace in
subsequent Europeans. The population as a whole, however, was fine.</span></p>

<p><span>Aside from the blips of the Mongol invasions, <a href="https://12ft.io/proxy?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.newyorker.com%2Fmagazine%2F2005%2F03%2F21%2Fthe-end-of-the-world"><span>the Black Death</span></a>, and the
Thirty Years’ War, the human number in Eurasia grew steadily, if slowly, for
the bulk of the next two millennia. As the economist Thomas Malthus famously
observed, the only effective deterrent to the otherwise consuming “passion
between the sexes” was the fear that one’s children would starve to death.
Families were just large enough to compensate for the fact that nearly half of
all babies born would never celebrate their fifth birthday. In about 1805, we
crossed the threshold of a billion people. That had taken the entirety of human
history. Our next billion took just a hundred and twenty-three years.</span></p>

<p><span>This population explosion coincided, oddly, with a downward
fertility drift in Europe. The pioneers were French aristocrats: in the
interest of consolidating familial wealth and prestige, the nobility
increasingly delayed marriage, and then sought to limit the number of offspring
who might expect their share of an inheritance. This made sense. But the
practices diffused, through mimicry, to the lower orders. This made less sense.
Evolutionary imperatives, it seemed, could be eclipsed by cultural contagion.</span></p>

<p><span>By the twentieth century, more rational explanations had
caught up. An industrializing economy no longer required children to help on
the farm. Women were free to enter the workplace. At the same time,
improvements in medicine and sanitation radically reduced the rate of childhood
mortality. Children became capital assets, and investments in their education
were understood to beget healthy returns. Economists likened this to other
consumer durables: as families get richer, they don’t just keep buying cars; they
buy nicer ones.</span></p>

<p><span>If economic prosperity decreased fertility, it seemed
intuitive that lower fertility should, in turn, increase prosperity. During the
Cold War, population control came to be seen as a kind of master key—a panacea
for social and political ills. In a forthcoming book, “Toxic Demography,” the
scholar Jennifer Sciubba and her co-authors write that American élites believed
“population growth caused poverty, and poverty caused communism.” It was in the
best interests of the West, leaders such as President <a href="https://12ft.io/proxy?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.newyorker.com%2Fmagazine%2F2019%2F01%2F28%2Fthe-secrets-of-lyndon-johnsons-archives"><span>Lyndon Johnson</span></a> affirmed,
to subsidize the proliferation of birth control and sex education. It was
unfortunate but apparently unavoidable that the principal instrument of family
planning was the female body. The president of <a href="https://12ft.io/proxy?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.newyorker.com%2Fmagazine%2F2023%2F05%2F15%2Fthe-problem-with-planned-parenthood"><span>Planned Parenthood</span></a>, an
organization founded in alignment with the eugenicist sympathies of
early-twentieth-century progressive movements, warned that an overly precious
concern for “individual women” would impede progress: “We dare not lose sight
of our goals—to apply this method to large populations.”</span></p>

<p><span>South Korea stood at the vanguard. A decade after the
Korean War, the country’s per-capita G.D.P. was below a hundred dollars—less
than that of Haiti. People ate tree bark or boiled grass, and children begged
in the streets. After a military coup in 1961, the new authoritarian leadership
tied its economic program to the cultivation of a citizenry that was smaller
and better educated. It was an all-hands-on-deck approach to the labor force.
Social workers fanned out to rural communities, where they encouraged women to
have no more than three children. The government legalized contraceptives and
pressed for the use of IUDs. These initiatives dovetailed with an emphasis on
ethnic homogeneity and traditionalist values. Biracial children of American
servicemen, along with the children of unwed mothers, were shipped abroad for
adoption, and Korea became known as the world’s largest “exporter” of babies.</span></p>

<p><span>The program was regarded as a smashing success. In the span
of twenty years, Korea’s fertility rate went from six to replacement, a feat
described by Asian demographers as “one of the most spectacular and fastest
declines ever recorded.” A crucial part of this plan was the educational
advancement of women, which the same demographers called “unprecedented in the
recent history of the world.” Far fewer Koreans came into existence, but those
who did enjoyed a similarly improbable rise in their standard of living.
Parents who remembered hunger produced children who could afford cosmetic
surgery.</span></p>

<p><span>Fertility all of a sudden seemed like a knob that
governments could turn at will. It was simply assumed that the “demographic
transition”—the shift from many deaths and many babies to far fewer of
both—would settle naturally around the replacement rate. Like a restaurant at
capacity, our unconscious maître d’s would regulate our numbers on a one-in,
one-out basis. It never really occurred to anyone that governments might want
to turn the knob the other way.</span></p>

<p><span>Except, as a Dutch demographer once dryly put it, “the
drive in human populations to procreate may long have been over-estimated.”
When Korea neared replacement, in 1983, its leadership might have reconsidered
its policies. Instead, it doubled down with a new slogan: “Even two are too
many.” By 1986, the Korean fertility rate reached 1.6. This remained stable for
about a decade, then fell off a cliff. The government has now devoted
approximately two hundred and fifty billion dollars to various pro-natalist efforts,
including cash transfers and parental-leave extensions, to no avail. Two years
ago, the legendary feminist legal scholar Joan Williams was shown the most
recent Korean fertility data for a documentary. She drew her hands to her face
in open-mouthed shock—like Edvard Munch’s “Scream”—and the image instantly
became a meme.</span></p>

<p><span>Korea’s demographic collapse is mostly taken as a fait
accompli. As John Lee, the political analyst, put it, “They say South Korea
will be extinct in a hundred years. Who cares? We’ll all be dead by then.” The
causes routinely cited include the cost of housing and of child care—among the
highest in the world. Very little in Korean society seems to give young people
the impression that child rearing might be rewarding or delightful. I met a
stylish twentysomething news reporter at an airy, silent café in Seoul’s lively
Itaewon district. “People hate kids here,” she told me. “They see kids and say,
‘Ugh.’ ” This ambient resentment finds an outlet in disdain for mothers.
She said, “People call moms ‘bugs’ or ‘parasites.’ If your kids make a little
noise, someone will glare at you.” She had recently vacationed in Rome, where
adults drank at bars while their kids ran amok. She said, “Here, people would
say, ‘What the hell are you doing?’ ”</span></p>

<p><span>The
online responses to media accounts of the crisis tend to be aggressively
cynical: “Just wait, we can go lower than that,” or “You can’t just birth the
slaves.” The reporter said, “When I write about this, I think, Well, what would
change <i>my</i> mind? The answer is nothing. It’s the norm not to
want kids.” Like many Koreans, she dotes on her dog. Finding gifts in Seoul for
my two little soccer fanatics at home required deliberate planning—I schlepped
all over town looking for national-team jerseys in child’s sizes and had to
settle for black-market knockoffs—but there is a pet depot on practically every
block. Last year, strollers for dogs outsold those for babies. She said, “I’m
not saying people value dogs more than they value children.” She paused to
gesture to the other patrons: “But all you have to do is look around.”</span></p>

<p><span>American conservatives have become preoccupied with
foreshadowings of “civilizational suicide.” A year ago, the <i>Times</i> columnist
Ross Douthat, a father of five, published an opinion piece that invoked the
Korean example as a “warning about what’s possible for us.” America’s birth
rate started to slip in 2008, with the onset of the financial crisis; by 2022,
the U.S. had caught up, or perhaps caught down, with the Korea of the
nineteen-eighties. Douthat and others see worrisome parallels here: marriage
rates are in retreat; gender polarization is rising; young people aren’t even
having sex for fun, let alone productively; the meritocracy is a grind; we’re
all rotting in front of our phones. Douthat has been circumspect about the
issue in a way that <span>MAGA</span> Republicans
are not. The Trump Administration’s new Transportation Secretary has already
instructed his department to prioritize “communities with marriage and birth
rates higher than the national average.” As the young right-wing activist
Charlie Kirk put it last summer, “The childless are the ones that are
destroying the country.”</span></p>

<p><i><span>“I’m just spitballing, but it might be fun if your next
play was about a lone skull making his way in the big city.”</span></i></p>

<p><span>Cartoon
by Chris Gural</span></p>

<p><span>Copy link to cartoon</span></p>

<p><span>Link copied</span></p>

<p><span>Shop</span></p>

<p><span>A childless vacuum, by this account, is the future liberals
want. Kirk’s conservative compatriots point to such examples as the young
progressive activist David Hogg, who once tweeted that he would “much rather
own a Porsche and have a Portuguese water dog and golden doodle” than have
children. “Long term it’s cheaper, better for the environment and will never
tell you that it hates you or ask you to pay for college.” These liberal
caricatures perceive family commitments as a drag on “self-actualization,” which
often becomes an excuse for hedonism. Conservatives instead call for a
rehabilitation of family values. The “<a href="https://12ft.io/proxy?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.newyorker.com%2Fculture%2Fpersons-of-interest%2Fthe-rise-and-fall-of-the-trad-wife"><span>trad wives</span></a>” of social
media make cornflakes from scratch and would never let their husbands milk the
cows. As the self-described “domestic extremist” Peachy Keenan has put it, “The
home with the mom and dad is the little factory to produce the future, like,
literally.” Others have reached for more nefarious explanations for languishing
birth rates. <a href="https://12ft.io/proxy?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.newyorker.com%2Fmagazine%2F2024%2F11%2F11%2Fthe-tucker-carlson-road-show"><span>Tucker Carlson</span></a> made
a documentary about “collapsing testosterone levels” in America; a far-right
influencer known as Raw Egg Nationalist blames endocrine disruptors in perfume.
There is no evidence, however, that the epidemic is one of infecundity. It may
be wishful to think so: it’s easier to avoid leaden dishware than it is to
reinvigorate a society’s desire for children.</span></p>

<p><span>The narrative of moral decay also sits uneasily with the
underlying data. In 2011, forty-five per cent of American pregnancies were
unplanned. This has come down dramatically, in large part owing to an
astonishing reduction in the incidence of teen-age pregnancy. Fresh-faced
“trad” milkmaids, for their part, do not seem to have more children. Where
female professional ambition once tracked with smaller families, this is no
longer the case: in Tunisia and in southern India, where women make up a very
small fraction of the labor market, fertility has dropped below replacement.
Recent research indicates that fertility rates now trend higher in countries
where more women work. In America, the decline cuts across demographic groups.
Even <a href="https://12ft.io/proxy?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.newyorker.com%2Fmagazine%2F2020%2F03%2F30%2Fhow-joseph-smith-and-the-early-mormons-challenged-american-democracy"><span>Mormons</span></a> are barely
replacing themselves.</span></p>

<p><span>Carlson has accused liberals of a plan to replace
native-born Americans with immigrants. Even if this were true, it might not be
the most provident strategy. Studies have shown that newcomers from
high-fertility countries tend to adopt the reproductive customs of their host
nation within a generation. Hispanic women account for a large share of
America’s recent fertility decline. Only two communities appear to be
maintaining very high fertility: ultra-Orthodox Jews and some Anabaptist sects.
The economist Robin Hanson’s back-of-the-envelope calculations suggest that
twenty-third-century America will be dominated by three hundred million Amish
people. The likeliest version of the Great Replacement will see a countryside
dotted everywhere with handsome barns.</span></p>

<p><span>Fertility decline is a polarizing issue in Korea. Lee
Jun-seok, a thirty-nine-year-old Harvard graduate who is sometimes compared to
J. D. Vance, is the most popular conservative politician of his
generation. We met late one Friday evening for beer and <i>soju</i>, and
our conversation was interrupted every five minutes by drunk revellers who
bowed deeply to him and took selfies. In the 2022 Korean Presidential race, Lee
helped mobilize disaffected young men to turn out in support of the
conservative candidate, who promised to abolish the gender ministry, which
coördinates the country’s equity policies. His victory, in what some observers
called the “incel election,” prefigured Trump’s triumph last year. Lee told me,
“When many women get to thirty-five, they start bitching about being duped by
the feminists who told them they could have it all. It’s literally impossible
for them to meet someone with the same socioeconomic status at that point, so
they have to degrade themselves. Now half of us are unmarried, and I’m part of
that.” When I asked about his American analogue, he said, “J. D. Vance
should not have been talking in a way that stereotyped people.” He paused, then
continued, “Although in Korea there’s more of a reality of childless cat
ladies.”</span></p>

<p><span>If Koreans aren’t reproducing, it’s not for lack of
traditionalism. Their culture, as one pro-natalist told me, is already “based.”
Pornography and sex work are illegal, and abortion was decriminalized only a
few years ago. A negligible proportion of Korean babies are born out of
wedlock. Korean men don’t do much at home, and those who do are often branded “<i>pongpongnam</i>,”
a reference to dish soap that means “foamy man.” Paternity leave remains
relatively rare, and men who take it are called “latte papas,” as if they’re
using the leave as a vacation. Women fear they are assigned low-level
professional tasks in anticipation of their departure from the labor force. As
Kim Jeongmin, the editorial director of the news organization Korea Pro, told
me, “In H.R. interviews, women feel pressured to show that they’re so dedicated
to their careers that they have no plans to get married.”</span></p>

<p><span>The insinuation that women are at fault for the demographic
crisis has turned gender friction into gender war. In 2016, the Korean
government issued a “birth map,” in which, as one blogger put it, “They counted
fertile women like they counted the number of livestock.” A conservative member
of the National Assembly recruited his own chorus line to demonstrate a novel
dance move he thought might help strengthen women’s pelvic floors. Many young
women now flirt with the “4B” mentality, a term for those who eschew dating,
sex, marriage, and children; some even forgo friendships with men. Yeho, a
nineteen-year-old sophomore at a prominent women’s college in Seoul, described
the routine misogyny of her male classmates in high school: boys habitually
recited lines they’d heard in porn, or illegally circulated pornographic memes.</span></p>

<p><span>She had no interest in dating or children. She told me,
“They might not grow up well, or they might fall into an incel community—and,
besides, children aren’t a necessary part of the good life.” Women in her
mother’s generation often regretted the sacrifices they had been expected to
make, and they raised their daughters to prioritize their careers. Yeho’s
college has an anonymous Reddit-like forum. The basic ground rule, she said,
was that “to give space to feeling good about men and relationships is to ignore
or minimize the dark side. Posts about heterosexual romance require a trigger
warning!” The most common such advisory is a derogatory portmanteau of the
words “love” and “hate.” In one typical reply, a woman wrote, “Can you please
stop posting about dating, it’s secondhand embarrassment? Your dick-to-ride-on
is not special at all, seriously.”</span></p>

<p><span>Iasked around in Seoul about where I might encounter
children in the wild, and was directed to Daechi-dong, an affluent neighborhood
notorious for its gated high-rise fortresses, luxury S.U.V.s, and after-school
academies, or <i>hagwons</i>. These institutions have names such as
Groton, Swaton International, and Emilton Academy, and each has its own faux
heraldry. The most privileged students spend their afternoons, evenings, and
weekends at as many as a dozen different <i>hagwons</i>. Eighty per cent
of Korean families purchase private education; poor families tend to spend as
much on <i>hagwons</i> as on groceries. Aggregate spending on
educational enrichment exceeds the R. &amp; D. expenditures of Samsung, a
conglomerate that makes up a fifth of the entire Korean economy. At school
dismissal, students climb into yellow buses that ferry them from one <i>hagwon</i> to
the next. Through the plate-glass window of a building stacked with <i>hagwons</i>,
I could see an orderly queue of elementary schoolers—so colorful, so
small—awaiting their turn in the elevator.</span></p>

<p><span>Koreans cite the pressures and costs of excessive education
as a large part of their reluctance to have children. (American parents in
liberal enclaves might share a version of these misgivings.) An auspicious
Korean childhood culminates in acceptance to one of Seoul’s three most
prestigious universities. Admission is primarily based on a student’s
performance on the national collegiate entrance exam, or Suneung, which is
administered every year on a Thursday in November. The opening of the stock
market is delayed that day, and many construction sites are closed. Bus and
metro services are increased to ease traffic congestion. Students running late
may avail themselves of a police-motorcycle escort. During the
English-comprehension section, which requires absolute silence, air-traffic
control suspends all takeoffs and landings.</span></p>

<p><span>At some <i>hagwons</i>, fifth graders learn calculus.
Elementary students take pre-med courses. Some focus on sports or musical
instruments. There’s a Korean saying that “a dragon emerges from a small
stream”—that talent can be identified and nurtured in any backwater. But the
political analyst John Lee, who was once a <i>hagwon</i> instructor,
was dubious about this meritocratic ideal: “I was given a score range for
students. If I gave a score that was too high, the parents would think that
their children should be at a ‘better’ <i>hagwon</i>. If I gave a score
that was too low, the parents would think, This is wasting my money, it’s not
working.” Some <i>hagwons</i> are extremely selective. As one young
woman said, “If you don’t go to a certain one, you’re not part of the group.”
Historically, at the strictest cram schools, social interactions were carefully
circumscribed. Some forbade any conversation between boys and girls that were
not directly related to study. Hugging, or the exchange of romantic notes,
might have resulted in bathroom-cleaning duty.</span></p>

<p><span>Four out of five children in Korea today describe school as
a “battlefield.” In 2012, the advocacy group World Without Worries About
Private Education helped develop an ad campaign that showed a baby bottle full
of fried rice, with a caption that read, “Mom! It’s too early for me.” Curfew
laws prohibit <i>hagwon</i> classes after about 10 or 11 <span>p.m</span>. The issue nonetheless remains a
society-wide prisoner’s dilemma, and even those who strenuously object in
principle frequently relent in practice. When I visited the advocacy group, one
employee told me, “In the macro, everyone understands it’s a problem, but in
the micro, for <i>my</i> family, and <i>my</i> kids, I have
to do it.” When I commented that the children must be miserable, he corrected
me: “If you don’t send them, the kids feel bad! That’s the only place they can
see their friends, because no one is at the playground.” The leading cause of death
among young Koreans is suicide. More than one Korean described their culture to
me as “broken.”</span></p>

<p><span>It is
not easy to opt out of the system. One morning, I met with half a dozen members
of an unorthodox day-care collective in a neighborhood called Hapjeong. This
patch of Seoul, they told me, was distinctive for its lack of chain stores, and
they convened at an otherwise empty local bakery; it was next to a Starbucks,
across the street from two other Starbucks, and catty-corner from a fourth
Starbucks. Forty years ago, Seoul had practically no child care. Some working
parents locked their children in their apartments and hoped for the best.
Children died in house fires. In 2002, a group of grassroots organizers formed
this communal alternative.</span></p>

<p><span>The current parents were nostalgic for their own alleyway
childhoods. An artist named Daum told me that, when he was young, “if you
kicked a ball into someone else’s property, you went and rang the doorbell and
got it back.” That city no longer existed: “Now you get yelled at—‘You could’ve
broken my window!’ ” There’s a special word for noise between floors.
Complaints forced Daum and his wife, Dani, to leave their previous building;
one neighbor said, “I can’t stand your children anymore!”</span></p>

<p><span>The day care took the kids outside every day. They learned
about plants and animals, and were taught to mark the seasons with the old
festival days. The use of standard honorifics was discouraged, and children
spoke to teachers in “half speak,” the register ordinarily reserved for
informal address. The parents agreed not to send their children to <i>hagwons</i> for
the time being. This ethic of mutual care had made parenting “less scary,” one
mother remarked. Still, when their children aged out, they would be fed to the
educational machine. Another mother said, “When they get to normal elementary
school, the other little kids are already accustomed to a full-day
schedule—they have more stamina, they’re used to <i>hagwons</i>—but these
kids are still used to nap time.”</span></p>

<p><span>Hwang Ock-kyeung, the president of a government-sponsored
think tank, told me that changes in policy can’t mend a culture that
marginalizes children. “My own employees tell me their babies look alien to
them,” she said. “Young people want the government to increase the child-care
hours, but then the time people spend with their children decreases!” An
obsession with social status turns children into tokens of parental
achievement: “Many parents take the subsidies and spend more money on
extra <i>hagwons</i>, and that becomes a vicious cycle.” Enhanced
professional productivity for parents, and the ability to enjoy one’s free
time, were not just collateral benefits. She added, “There’s a reason that if
you go to Daechi-dong you’ll see <i>hagwons</i> and Pilates in the
same building.”</span></p>

<p><span>Just before Christmas, when a viral tweet announced a
record low for American fertility, some liberals blew confetti. One young woman
was retweeted twenty-six thousand times for writing, “Amazing keep it up
everybody!!!!!!” A comedian urged her followers to “<span>HOLD THE LINE</span>!!!!!” Last year, the philosopher Anastasia
Berg and the editor Rachel Wiseman, who seem otherwise unimpeachably
progressive, published a book called “<a href="https://12ft.io/proxy?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.amazon.com%2FWhat-Are-Children-Ambivalence-Choice%2Fdp%2F1250276136%2Fref%3Dtmm_hrd_swatch_0%3F_encoding%3DUTF8%26dib_tag%3Dse%26dib%3DeyJ2IjoiMSJ9.qEfy7_uMyLICL7RkL8CqSc4hW5OmTJxe6mNgh6FtdfUWM_yT2Fev6wb2fD_5SbqiXQJKE5pFKiSmeoTwOV0E_lqU5aKwHYOOUDDY9viHNjICxQl561plT8X2CZtjjl3hL85c6859-SZjmPPf5kKL5zQK06oy43yYX74N5_QDiiToUAZ8Sm_IofmmOX5oYo7pB7SwJGZ47rPWJsuekvwCPk_VwFRizEB_4QxckgK3ZqA.vRuYpfyM6gRGU2DW9vbFD8k4vvEvqLZgmglVy5bu3_Q%26qid%3D1740175308%26sr%3D8-1"><span>What Are Children For?</span></a>”
It builds to a thoughtful, nuanced, heavily qualified endorsement of
childbearing as kinda nice. In a scathing review, the writer Moira Donegan
observed that ambivalent American women do not lack for such counsel. Any
leftist who feels the need to emphasize that babies are good, Donegan argues,
might not be a leftist after all: “It may be that on some level, perhaps not
always a conscious one, the millennial pro-natalists are trying to convince
American women that the freedom they lost with Roe v. Wade was not worth
having.”</span></p>

<p><span>Given the stakes for reproductive autonomy, Donegan’s
reservations are entirely comprehensible. Most left-leaning Americans are
similarly distrustful of the pro-natalist discourse. Leigh Senderowicz, a
feminist demographer at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, told me, “There is
fundamentally no way to do this that doesn’t end up treating women’s bodies as
a tool.” According to the U.N., countries with pro-natalist policies tend to be
less democratic. A baby-bonus initiative in Italy’s Piedmont region was given a
name and logo that seemed an awful lot like an homage to Fascism. Eberstadt,
the economist, told me, “In China, the mechanics are in place to say, ‘Oh, I’m
sorry, Miss Wong, you can’t fly on airplanes anymore, because you’re
unmarried.’ ” Local Party officials are already knocking on doors to track
menstrual cycles. The Russian government recently passed a law that
criminalizes “child-free propaganda,” potentially including the representation
of a happily childless couple on television or social media.</span></p>

<p><span>Some progressives seem fine with child-free propaganda. The
BirthStrike Movement proclaims that “not having children is the single most
impactful decision that a person can make to reverse climate change.” This
might seem sensible, but depopulation will happen far too slowly to alleviate
the worst effects of climate change. The children who would have traded their
own existence for a cooler planet have already been born. In “What Are Children
For?,” <a href="https://12ft.io/proxy?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.newyorker.com%2Fnews%2Ffault-lines%2Fhow-liberals-talk-about-children"><span>Berg and Wiseman</span></a> suggest
that such environmental logic provides a cloak of moral legitimacy for personal
preferences that feel otherwise difficult to articulate. One scholar called
this the “<a href="https://12ft.io/proxy?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.tandfonline.com%2Fdoi%2Fabs%2F10.1080%2F09644016.2021.1902700"><span>socio-political weaponization of
fertility</span></a>.”</span></p>

<p><span>Liberals are right to point to immigration as the obvious
way to mitigate the economic effects of demographic contraction. Italy
currently has a shortage of nurses, and Germany has a shortage of plumbers; a
baby born today does nothing to unclog a Düsseldorf sink. Even immigration,
however, is a stopgap measure: by 2100, ninety-seven per cent of the world’s
countries are predicted to be below replacement. In the meantime,
pro-immigration policies will continue to generate nativist backlashes. Last
year, Seoul sponsored a pilot program to import a hundred nannies from the
Philippines. The project, despite its lack of ambition, was wildly
controversial. This was perhaps unsurprising: Korean women have been known to
berate their Vietnamese daughters-in-law for peeling apples in the wrong
direction. American liberals are quick to associate the fear of cultural
corrosion with xenophobia. But Korea was long a vassal state of China, and then
a Japanese colony, so the question of civilizational survival has a slightly
different valence there than it does here. And even liberals tend to get
understandably sentimental about, say, the loss of linguistic diversity. The
Finnish demographer Anna Rotkirch pointed out to me that fewer than ten
thousand babies were born in Estonia last year. “What will happen to the
Estonian language?” she asked. “Seriously, this is not a far-off thing!”</span></p>

<p><i><span>“My productivity apps weren’t working, so I hired a goon.”</span></i></p>

<p><span>Cartoon
by Emily Flake</span></p>

<p><span>Copy link to cartoon</span></p>

<p><span>Link copied</span></p>

<p><span>Shop</span></p>

<p><span>The most sophisticated liberal arguments interpret
fertility decline as a symptom of more serious underlying problems—economic
precarity and an “incomplete” gender revolution. Men and women alike struggle
to provide for their families, but the participation of fathers at home has not
caught up to the participation of mothers at work. A more generous welfare
state, and a more equitable culture, should therefore produce more children.
This does not seem to be the case. Finland famously provides all new parents
with “baby boxes” full of useful, high-quality products, and Sweden has normalized
extended parental leave, especially for fathers, and flexible work hours. The
Nordic countries are wonderful places to be parents, but their fertility rates
are lower than our own. These trends are not reducible to budgetary concerns.
Child care is virtually free in Vienna and extremely expensive in Zurich, but
the Austrians and the Swiss have the same fertility rate.</span></p>

<p><span>The incidence of childlessness among Democrats is
significantly higher than it is among Republicans. This appears in part to be
an artifact of educational polarization. Lower fertility rates seem correlated
with the perception that proper child development depends upon enormous amounts
of personal attention. Some economists attribute our recent fertility slide to
a generational shift: people who were born in the nineties are less likely to
remember a time when children were largely left alone. Working mothers today
devote more time to active child care than stay-at-home mothers did in previous
generations. Mothers with a college degree spend about four more hours per week
with their children than mothers without one, and they are also less likely to
live in proximity to extended family. In an economy biased in favor of highly
skilled employees, a protracted education followed by a long career
apprenticeship seems like the only way to secure a dependable income. But the
longer people wait to try to form a family, the less likely they are to have
one.</span></p>

<p><span>We all
might agree that everyone deserves the financial security to afford the number
of children they desire. The word “afford,” however, means different things to
different people, and in the coastal precincts of “achievement culture” it has
been inflated to encompass individual bedrooms, piano lessons, travel lacrosse
teams, Russian math, and single-origin organic peanut butter.</span></p>

<p><span>For most of human history, having children was something
the majority of people simply did without thinking too much about it. Now it is
one competing alternative among many. The only overarching explanation for the
global fertility decline is that once childbearing is no longer seen as
something special—as an obligation to God, to one’s ancestors, or to the
future—people will do less of it. It is misogynistic to equate reproductive
autonomy with self-indulgence, and child-free people often devote themselves to
loving, conscientious caretaking. At the same time, we should be able to
acknowledge that there is something slightly discomforting about a world view
that weighs children against expensive dinners or vacations to Venice—as
matters of mere preference in a logic of consumption.</span></p>

<p><span>In the southern city of Gangjin, I stopped at a coffee shop
and encountered a sign on the entrance that read “This is a no-kids zone. The
child is not at fault. The problem is the parents who do not take care of the
child.” The doors of Korean establishments are frequently emblazoned with such
prohibitions. The only children I saw on Seoul’s public transit were
foreigners. Kim Kyu-jin, who is by all accounts part of Korea’s first openly
lesbian couple with a child, told me, “Five years ago, we didn’t think too
deeply about ‘no-kids zones.’ Now we think it’s discriminatory. We always call
places beforehand to ask if we can bring our daughter.” Children remain welcome
and visible at malls. The Seoul government offers a “Multi-Child Happiness
Card,” which gives parents discounts at select amusement parks and theatres.
When it was first introduced, you needed three kids to qualify; now you qualify
with two. Daum, the artist, told me, “We joke that soon enough they’re going to
give the ‘multiple-kids card’ to households with only one.”</span></p>

<p><span>It is a poignant irony that among Korea’s few
child-friendly places are former schools. In a picturesque river valley outside
the northern city of Chuncheon, an old elementary school has been converted
into a café and resort that resembles a high-end sanatorium, with blond wood
and poured concrete. Alongside nostalgic references to the “innocent smiles of
children long ago,” its brochure offers a family photo-shoot package; the price
includes basic retouching, although they promise not to “go overboard.” For
families who can’t afford premium coffees, the Seoul government has repurposed
a collection of rural schools as family campgrounds.</span></p>

<p><span>One lies in the mountains not far from the D.M.Z.; I
visited at the tail end of foliage season. An uneven parking lot had been
outfitted with a matrix of black tents erected atop low wooden platforms. The
old cafeteria featured a few game tables. A pink-sweatsuited adolescent played
a desultory Ping-Pong match against his uncle. The boy’s father told me, “We
come here with our children so we won’t be bothered by other people’s
judgment.” Outside, dry brown leaves blew around in a light rain, and most of
the families huddled under awnings that had been installed to protect the
tents. One solitary little girl played with a bright bird-shaped kite attached
to a plastic fishing pole. As I left, I noticed a statue of a boy with a torch,
identical to the one I’d seen at the school in Haenem, but considerably the
worse for wear.</span></p>

<p><span>Countries have tried everything to reverse demographic
collapse. In Hungary, women with four or more children gain a lifetime
exemption from income tax. In Georgia, the Orthodox Patriarch offered to
personally baptize any baby born to the parents of more than two children.
Although some nations have stabilized at a low level, there is not a single
modern example of one that has managed a sustained recovery from very low
fertility to replacement. The world’s most lavishly pro-natalist governments
spend a fortune on incentives and services, and have increased the fertility
rate by approximately a fifth of a baby per woman. Some observers believe that
subsidies could succeed, but they would have to be on the order of three
hundred thousand dollars per child.</span></p>

<p><span>One smoggy morning, I visited Oh Se-hoon, the mayor of
Seoul, at his City Hall office, which recalled the captain’s deck in a space
opera. He has focussed primarily on the dire shortage of housing in Seoul, a
city where almost fifty per cent of people now live alone. He listed his other
initiatives: the Childbirth Encouragement Project, which included “eighty-seven
subprojects,” and the Mom and Dad Happiness Project, which comprised
“twenty-eight subprojects.” While the Mayor lectured me, a large screen on the
far wall ticked through an optimistic slide show of inverted pyramids and other
fanciful renderings of urban futurism. When I mentioned that some demographers
now regard population decline as a phenomenon to be managed rather than
remediated, he intimated that voters were an obstacle to more profound
adjustments. On my way out, two of his aides directed my attention to a lobby
café where espresso drinks were prepared by a robotic barista arm.</span></p>

<p><span>Some Korean companies pay their employees to have children,
but the private sector now generally accepts that it must adapt to a world
where children are luxuries. Analysts anticipate a
hundred-and-sixty-billion-dollar “silver industry” to meet the needs of healthy
pensioners. One travel agency expects that seniors, in the absence of
grandchildren to spoil, will spend their disposable income on pricier trips.
Conglomerates like Hyundai are planning high-end retirement communities for
those who cannot rely on their families for eldercare. Companies that once
catered to the mass market will have to pivot to a premium clientele. Samsung
has long relied on wedding registries for the sales of large appliances. Cho,
the celebrity demographer, praised a recent company plan to sell a few really
fancy refrigerators in place of many adequate ones. The new line is called
Samsung Bespoke.</span></p>

<p><span>The United States is nowhere near the point of robotic
baristas. The current “crisis” might well go the way of the population bomb.
The sociologist Philip N. Cohen told me, “If you think you have a model
now that predicts birth rates in two hundred years, you’re just drawing lines
on a chart.” Most scholars deem our nascent panic to be counterproductive; in
the reassuringly titled “<a href="https://12ft.io/proxy?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.amazon.com%2FDecline-Prosper-Changing-Advantages-Children%2Fdp%2F3030916103%2Fref%3Dsr_1_1%3Fcrid%3D1DC03R2NSJ2OA%26dib%3DeyJ2IjoiMSJ9.0Kgm50zNbwHUBFSU9ENWA2pJfWn2St5fa8azaDcKSlt1auOchKmWfZm6r09xmJZ3.PHHKpcgT7cDScEYzy_T0JKv5VWzGfX0EuMLM8uYEUGM%26dib_tag%3Dse%26keywords%3DDecline%2520and%2520Prosper%26qid%3D1740175521%26sprefix%3D%2Caps%2C198%26sr%3D8-1"><span>Decline and Prosper!</span></a>,”
from 2022, the Norwegian demographer Vegard Skirbekk reiterates that “low, but
not too low,” fertility is a good thing. There is, however, an asterisk
attached to this. Two decades ago, Skirbekk helped contrive a thought
experiment called “the low-fertility trap hypothesis,” which proposed the
possibility of an unrecoverable downward spiral. Ultra-low fertility meant far
fewer babies, which meant far fewer people to have babies, or even to <i>know</i> babies;
this feedback loop could even shift cultural norms so far that childlessness
would become the default option.</span></p>

<p><span>This eventuality had seemed remote. Then it more or less
happened in Korea. When I asked Skirbekk if other countries might follow suit,
he replied, “Quite a few, possibly.” Rotkirch, the Finnish demographer,
underscored the notion that reproductive cues are social. “In a forthcoming
survey, I want to ask, ‘Have you ever had a baby in your arms?’ ” she told
me. “I think in Finland it’s a sizable portion that hasn’t.” These mimetic
dynamics play out not just within countries but between them. Hwang Sun-jae, a
sociologist who studies fertility norms, traces the swift dissemination of low
fertility in part to social media’s role as an accelerant of global
monoculture. It has never been easier to acquaint yourself with the opportunity
costs of childbearing—the glamorous destinations unvisited, the faddish foods
uneaten. “People once had only local comparisons,” he said. “Now they see other
people’s lives—in New York City and England and France—and they have a sense of
relative deprivation: my life is not good enough.”</span></p>

<p><span>The costs of an aging and diminished society feel more
abstract. Last year, an online sketch portrayed a traditional Korean
first-birthday celebration in ten years’ time: the <a href="https://12ft.io/proxy?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.newyorker.com%2Fmagazine%2F2022%2F12%2F12%2Fat-qatars-world-cup-where-politics-and-pleasure-collide"><span>World Cup</span></a> stadium
hosts the festivities for a crowd of ten thousand, including the country’s
President. Regular life, in the video, is peppered with minor inconveniences:
food orders can take more than ninety minutes. The actual inconveniences might
not be as minor. By 2050, Korea’s labor force will be about two-thirds of its
current size, and food delivery might be a thing of the past. Cho advised the
Nongshim noodle company that it would soon be impossible to hire anyone in
Busan, Korea’s second-largest city.</span></p>

<p><span>Retirement ages will continue to increase. Autocratic
countries, where politicians can ignore older voters, might simply deny
pensions to the childless. New forms of factionalism could test the limits of
liberal coexistence. Younger workers in social democracies might increasingly
resent the taxes they pay for entitlement programs that they will never
themselves receive. Men, especially those of low status, are currently much
less likely to have the number of children they desire, if they have children at
all. If this trend continues, every election will be an incel election. In “<a href="https://12ft.io/proxy?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.amazon.com%2FChildren-Men-JAMES-P-D%2Fdp%2F0571342213%2Fref%3Dtmm_pap_swatch_0%3F_encoding%3DUTF8%26dib_tag%3Dse%26dib%3DeyJ2IjoiMSJ9.wlbKNIaEGNomVxoUtnfYEhXiNLp7loivhF10j7DfYWHw5ePomGuA0c0SlgEQmrDDzb1bppmjQqDDfCh6WK8mHMnBF84vL4cMalyhjnVIVwvdyLpU0W1fUr49mflqTZ5Vf9GWKFs6knHedNquY6vbJktlQfvU4ZQKclSC7m39WXyLnrOdlqKWGhvb1ozNg_dSa70n35znjDnjswqUazcV2mkj6MN4X_23svY9k7KtxIA.g560USPfZ72wMx2_ZbeLpmy6oIhr0UCrvroKUVmnIO4%26qid%3D1740175571%26sr%3D8-1"><span>The Children of Men</span></a>,” not
the film but the original novel, by P. D. James, the social order cannot
withstand such a void. Great Britain is an island of twilit senility overseen
by a strict Warden. Basic infrastructure is shored up by an immigrant
underclass, and the elderly are chained to barges that disappear beneath the
sea. (A few years ago, Yusuke Narita, a Japanese economist at Yale, called upon
Japanese seniors to perform seppuku.)</span></p>

<p><span>Many Koreans told me that they look forward to a society
with less competition—a smaller, gentler world with a greater share of
resources for all. In this picture, the future is exactly the same as the
present, except with fewer people. It is just as probable, however, that
inequality will increase. As universities close en masse, the remainder might
prove even more selective. If Korea’s labor force becomes insufficient to
produce and distribute basic goods—a distinct possibility by the end of the
century—they could be hoarded by those of means. The demographer Dean Spears
noted that the more idiosyncratic our needs and desires the more we rely on the
fact that other people share them: “If you need specialized medical care,
you’re less likely to find it in a rural place than in a big city, where there
are more people who need the same sort of thing you need.” If current trends
continue, in several decades there will be many fewer Koreans, and virtually
all of them will live in metropolitan Seoul—a city-state surrounded by
wilderness, ruin, and, if they are lucky, robotic rice cultivation.</span></p>

<p><span>Economic prosperity has long relied on an expanding
population to drive greater output, increased demand, and new markets.
Advocates of degrowth have pointed out the manifest unsustainability of such
intergenerational pyramid schemes, but their implosion will probably not be
peaceful. If the bottom falls out of, say, the Chinese real-estate market—among
the largest asset classes in the world—the entire global economy could totter.
Iroquois “mourning wars” against neighboring tribes—raids to replenish their own
numbers with captives—intensified in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries,
after disease and colonial violence depleted the nation. Russia’s invasion of
Ukraine seems to have been motivated in part by Vladimir Putin’s desire to
increase the motherland’s quantity of ethnic Russians.</span></p>

<p><span>In a
grotesque way, the “Mad Max” scenario represents a comforting fantasy. A
steampunk world—with war-making vehicles lashed together from old radiators and
Atari circuit boards—is at least a vital one. But a depopulated landscape might
actually be characterized by quiescence. There is an extensive literature that
links economic dynamism to youth. Young people, who have wilder imaginations
and a greater appetite for risk, drive the bulk of entrepreneurial activity.
For <a href="https://12ft.io/proxy?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.newyorker.com%2Ftag%2Felon-musk"><span>Elon Musk</span></a> and his
followers, children are technological lottery tickets: we never know which
genetically enhanced baby might at last invent a functional warp drive. One
technological pro-natalist told me, “We do not exist just to consume, and we
don’t want the end state of humanity to be the Villages in Florida.”</span></p>

<p><span>The most persuasive aspect of technological pro-natalism is
not what we might theoretically gain from a larger population. It is the
foreboding of what we might lose with a diminished one. The evolutionary
anthropologist Joseph Henrich has summoned the example of the aboriginal
Tasmanians, who were cut off from mainland Australia about ten thousand years
ago. Their population was too small and too diffuse to preserve their
expertise, and they apparently forgot how to make complex bone tools, how to
make warm clothing, and even how to fish. And sheer numbers are only part of
the story. For a culture to evolve, it needs a lot of different kinds of
people—stubborn, nutty people with outlandish proposals. The weirdest people
around are almost always children.</span></p>

<p><span>Demographers often worry that indulging in sci-fi
speculation might inadvertently prompt governments to adopt draconian measures.
Still, the demographer Leslie Root admitted that she sometimes wonders, “Is it
possible we actually evolved to be too smart for our own good, and we’re just
too interested in other things to go along with the bullshit of having to have
enough kids to perpetuate the species? I don’t know! Maybe?” She collected
herself, then added, “What’s most interesting to me, when I think about what it
might be like to maintain a stable human population, is that there’s a very
real possibility that we’ll need to reinvent society.”</span></p>

<p><span>Adecade ago, a Korean reality program showcased wealthy
celebrities in unattainably idyllic scenes with their children. A more
realistic portrayal of family life might have been more fruitful. Miji and
Ho-gil are a shy, attractive, and slightly unusual couple, the parents of two
boys. Miji, who is thirty-three, studied media in Seoul, and then freelanced
for a broadcaster in Gwangju. Ho-gil, who is thirty-eight, got a job after
college at a children’s foundation, where the “strict milestones” that govern
Korean aspirations lost their hold on him. He recently saw a report that Korea
was the only wealthy industrialized nation where the highest personal priority
was economic improvement rather than love. He told me, “In Korean society, we
are educated to have one single goal, but then, once you’re grown up, you don’t
know what to do with your freedom—you get lost in the world, and you don’t know
how to have a good life.”</span></p>

<p><span>They met at a book club in 2016. Miji matter-of-factly
characterized herself as “the kind of person who is always swayed by other
people’s opinions,” and she was drawn to Ho-gil for his independence. After
five years of living separately, they decided to get married. She wanted a
large, formal wedding, but he imagined something more intimate, and they
compromised. Miji told me, “I can’t ignore social norms, but I have to strike a
balance between what society wants and his beliefs.”</span></p>

<p><i><span>“You know how sometimes you say you’re not hungry, but then
you see what I’m eating and ask for a bite, and I always let you and I’m never
annoyed?”</span></i></p>

<p><span>Cartoon
by Suerynn Lee</span></p>

<p><span>Copy link to cartoon</span></p>

<p><span>Link copied</span></p>

<p><span>Shop</span></p>

<p><span>She hoped to have children, but at the time he felt
“selfish”—he wasn’t used to being around kids and wasn’t sure what to do with
them. He read some books about children, and they had a “very intense debate
and discussion.” She had no job security, and he told her, “If you’re serious
about this, change your job fast.” She found a position as a museum curator.
Ho-gil told me that he “isn’t interested in moving up the ladder,” so he wasn’t
worried that he’d be penalized for taking time off. But Miji seemed more
ambivalent: “If you have career ambitions, it’s really hard to make the
decision to go on leave for children.” (She noted that she has been passed over
twice for a promotion.) At the time, Gwangju offered a monthly payment to
parents of about a hundred and fifty dollars, on top of a five-hundred-dollar
subsidy that the federal government paid each month until the child went to day
care. For Ho-gil, the money made the prospect thinkable. “All his decisions
were down to the numbers, and the numbers worked out,” Miji said.</span></p>

<p><span>Their first child, Wooju, was born in 2022. When they
brought him home from the hospital, the first thing they did was apologize to
their neighbors, warning them that they “might move around and make noise.”
Fortunately, the elderly couple downstairs was “more forgiving than most.” Miji
and Ho-gil were very happy. It was easy to imagine having a second.</span></p>

<p><span>Regional birth subsidies sometimes succeed on paper, but
these statistics are artificially inflated by “take and dash” parents, who move
to a place temporarily for the money—as if the entire country were playing a
bizarro version of musical chairs. In 2023, Gwangju curtailed the subsidies.
But, just as Miji became pregnant again, Gangjin, a small city about an hour
and a half away, announced an offer three times as generous. As it happened,
Ho-gil’s parents worked a farm there. Much of what Miji knew about the area was
gleaned from a reality-television show about the renovation of ghost-town
houses; her friends found the prospect of their moving to Gangjin inexplicable,
even shameful. Still, this past October, the family relocated.</span></p>

<p><span>On a weekday morning, they had me over to their tidy, spare
apartment. One of the only adornments on the walls was a long-defunct
video-intercom console, its molded curves like a “Star Trek” fossil. The meagre
trappings seemed like a defiant statement of their priorities, and the home was
warmed by their togetherness. Their younger son, ten-month-old Eun-byul, was a
round child dressed in a green bib that made him look like a little flower. He
had only just begun to say “Mommy.” They were impressed by how dissimilar the
two boys were—the older one sensitive and introverted, the little one active
and outgoing. Their lives are largely isolated. They’re grateful for the
region’s rural beauty, but the closest pediatrician is about a twenty-minute
drive away. Miji said, “If your baby isn’t healthy, you can’t live here.”</span></p>

<p><span>They had noticed one neighbor with a baby, and they were
hoping that at some point they’d say more than “hello.” They have otherwise
resigned themselves to the fact that they’ll have few opportunities to meet
other parents until school begins, when they’ll join a parent group chat for
logistics. The town features three places they can take the kids, including an
indoor playground run by the local district office. They showed me photos of
Eun-byul in a little sandbox on a linoleum floor. The town’s one “trendy
Instagrammable café,” as Miji put it, has declared itself a no-kids zone.</span></p>

<p><span>They seemed pleased for the chance to discuss the
banalities of rural family life. Miji’s friends weren’t interested in hearing
about it. They told her, “Once the children are older, you’ll come back to
Gwangju for their education.” She’d attended a <i>hagwon</i> to
prepare for the college entrance exam, and she wasn’t inclined to deny her
children the same advantage. Ho-gil had not, and he didn’t think it was
necessary. In fact, he wasn’t convinced that a college degree was essential,
which to most Koreans is as radical as saying that he didn’t need hot water.</span></p>

<p><span>When they do return to their jobs, they will both face an
hour-and-a-half-long commute each direction. They consider that a concern for
another day. Ho-gil picked up Eun-byul, who bounced on his lap with a contented
sigh. He said, “Of course I have doubts, and I wonder what my life would have
been like if I hadn’t chosen to have a family.” But he’d been wrong to assume,
as his friends did, that “fatherhood eats away at your personal life.” Still,
my (male, unmarried, dog-owning) interpreter, who told me later that such
affectionate behavior was uncommon among Korean fathers, couldn’t help but ask
him, “Aren’t you bored?”</span></p>

<p><span>There’s a philosophical view, best associated with the
scholar L. A. Paul, that the decision to have children is fundamentally
irrational. A rigorous cost-benefit analysis might produce an estimate of a
child’s expected value, but the experience is transformative in a way that
renders the calculation irrelevant. You will have made a decision by the lights
of a person you will no longer be. There’s something inescapably patronizing
when parents make this argument. I remain unsure if it’s true, yet I’ve heard
myself repeat it. For the usual reasons of work-life intractability, writing
this piece has taken me away from my own little boys. When I asked my
eight-year-old why someone should have children, he stopped punching his little
brother long enough to say, “We’re excellent company.”</span></p>

<p><span>The leap-of-faith argument makes sense only if we, and the
society we live in, remain open to such transformation. In Korea, one graduate
student told me, “The standard life course is boring. Surprises are not
virtues. We can imagine all of the things until we die.” Before the Asian
financial crisis, in 1997, the economist Kim Seongeun told me, the top scorers
on the collegiate entrance exam often went on to Seoul National University to
study physics. When a faltering economy prompted large companies to fire their
scientists, he observed, many parents converged on the idea that medicine was a
safer path. It didn’t take long for the top scorers to become doctors instead.
Kim wasn’t exempt from the tendency to hedge his bets: “How can I place my own
son in a small boat?” To become a parent at all, I remarked offhandedly, was to
perceive all boats as too small. He laughed and thought for a moment, then
said, “Maybe the low fertility rate here is because people are smart. The
risk-free asset in a diversified portfolio is zero kid.” He just wasn’t sure
what to make of it all in the end. He said, “The low fertility rate is not
really good or bad. We just don’t know.”</span></p>

<p><span>This is the intellectually responsible position.
Emotionally, it’s a little evasive. Rotkirch, the Finnish demographer, recalled
a newspaper item in which a young woman asked why she should sacrifice her body
and her partnership for a pregnancy. Such anxieties are a natural prelude to
any vault into the unknown. Still, Rotkirch marvelled, “My idea was that it
just happens and it’s normal to be nervous.” Chang Pilwha, who has been an
influential women’s-studies scholar for forty years, echoed this bewilderment.
“Many of my best feminist friends say the best thing they’ve ever done is have
a child, and nobody should brand that as conservative or liberal,” she said.
She is apprehensive about what society will look like once fewer and fewer
people are parents. As she put it, “Becoming a mother or a father is a precious
process of learning to be human, and the lack of that experience with
vulnerability is only going to create more ruthlessness.”</span></p>

<p><span>Child
rearing is not a necessary condition for vulnerability. It’s not even a
sufficient one. But there may nevertheless be something irreducible about the
shared experience of parenthood—a life in which your fragile heart now seems to
beat on the outside of your body. You see the guardians of a sleeping child on
the subway and think, These are not just random strangers but fellow-passengers
with utterly exasperating human beings for whom they would unequivocally die.</span></p>

<p><span>Children have long played a symbolic role in a debate that
was carried out far over their actual heads. For everyone who saw them as the
ultimate affirmation of life itself, someone else saw our treatment of them as
reason to despair. The poet <a href="https://12ft.io/proxy?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.newyorker.com%2Fmagazine%2F2004%2F07%2F26%2Ftwice-collected"><span>Philip Larkin</span></a> wrote,
“Man hands on misery to man. / It deepens like a coastal
shelf. / Get out as early as you can, / And don’t have any
kids yourself.” It didn’t much matter. Most people went ahead and had them
anyway.</span></p>

<p><span>It seems as if we might now be transforming an old and
insoluble philosophical conflict into an empirical experiment with real stakes.
Sometimes it seems as though we’re in a hurry to do so. The fertility-rate
culture war wields children as symbolic extensions of ourselves. People look to
the birth rate as an index of what is normal, and no one is safe from the dread
of judgment. Conservatives with large families fear they are seen as zoo
animals. Liberals without children fear they are seen as selfish careerists or
libertines. This may not just be a consequence of the fertility decline; it
might be intensifying it. Children could survive being yoked to the value of
humanity as a whole. It feels much more perilous to treat them as instruments
of our own identities.</span></p>

<p><span>Children are variables in our lives. But they are also
strange birds of their own. Religious people talk about them as carriers of the
divine spark, technologists as messengers from the future. Secular humanists
are content to mumble something about the imagination. In any case, they should
probably be prevented from sticking their fingers into sockets or setting fire
to our homes. But we might otherwise trust them to figure out what they mean,
or how to mean it. We might stand before them as models of humility and
ambivalence. It is not fair for us, as individual parents or as a society, to
expect them to bear the weight of our certainties. They are, after all, just
children. ♦</span></p>

<p><span>Published
in the print edition of the <a href="https://12ft.io/proxy?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.newyorker.com%2Fmagazine%2F2025%2F03%2F03"><span>March 3, 2025</span></a>, issue,
with the headline “The End of Children.”</span></p>

<p> </p></div>