# Why Do They Hate Us? [via Longreads]

**Source:** http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/04/23/why_do_they_hate_us?page=full  
**Domain:** foreignpolicy.com  
**Folder:** Starred  
**Added:** 2012-04-30T11:28:09  
**Content Type:** Selection Content Extracted  
**Selection Length:** 1,019 characters  


---

## Selected Content

A call for justice for women in the Middle East. The writer, who was sexually assaulted by Egyptian police last year, says the revolutions have not addressed the plight of women: <br /><br />

"Yes: They hate us. It must be said. <br /><br />

"Some may ask why I'm bringing this up now, at a time when the region has risen up, fueled not by the usual hatred of America and Israel but by a common demand for freedom. After all, shouldn't everyone get basic rights first, before women demand special treatment? And what does gender, or for that matter, sex, have to do with the Arab Spring? But I'm not talking about sex hidden away in dark corners and closed bedrooms. An entire political and economic system -- one that treats half of humanity like animals -- must be destroyed along with the other more obvious tyrannies choking off the region from its future. Until the rage shifts from the oppressors in our presidential palaces to the oppressors on our streets and in our homes, our revolution has not even begun."

---

*This content was extracted from your Instapaper Selection field.*

"Yes: They hate us. It must be said. <br /><br />

"Some may ask why I'm bringing this up now, at a time when the region has risen up, fueled not by the usual hatred of America and Israel but by a common demand for freedom. After all, shouldn't everyone get basic rights first, before women demand special treatment? And what does gender, or for that matter, sex, have to do with the Arab Spring? But I'm not talking about sex hidden away in dark corners and closed bedrooms. An entire political and economic system -- one that treats half of humanity like animals -- must be destroyed along with the other more obvious tyrannies choking off the region from its future. Until the rage shifts from the oppressors in our presidential palaces to the oppressors on our streets and in our homes, our revolution has not even begun."
